---
layout: post
title: <i>Why</i>
---

A couple weeks ago when I was sitting in digital history, I wasn't sold. Not that it's anyone's job to sell me. I just have a clearcut idea of things I like to do. Write fiction. People will read it. Make a kiosk display. People will see it. But for this, I was stuck. Make a historical game, a pirate box, or a projection map. But <i>why</i>?
  
This <i>why</i> question is my starting point. In some ways, I could probably find answers to the question <i>why</i>, but I was struggling. Answers weren't going to cut it that particular Saturday morning. Digital projects seemed interesting but I couldn't get past the distance between the projects and me. The only way, I thought to myself, to get past this mental block, was to drop the <i>why</i> for a minute and explore interesting research ideas

Some digging around on Google, the Ottawa Archives, and the library, led me to some interesting Ottawa institutions: Good Shepard’s Magdalene Asylum, Perley Home for the Incurables, Protestant Orphan Home, Home for the Friendless, and a few others. They all told stories of people hwo lived on the fringes of Ottawa. But equally interesting, a lot of the original buildings had been destroyed, and replaced. I recognized the spaces they used to occupy, and I wanted to know about the people who occupied that space.

Now that I had a topic, the question turned to: what was the execution to be? How was I going to turn this research into a digital history project. Projection mapping, while interesting, left me a little unsatisfied. Pirate boxes seemed better for an institution, but locative storytelling, that was something I could get behind. ARIS became my best bet. I could use the locations of the original institutions, craft characters, and share images of some of the archival material. This was the idea. BUT, it wasn't quite enought. The question then turns to: how I am going to turn this into a game? I have no idea. In discussion with Shawn Graham, the professor for HIST5701W, he suggested I look at the final sites as "boss" battles (the locations of these institutions), which as a videogame player, made sense to me. Use the geography and narrative to get to these sites. The question of how exactly will come later in the process.

The best part of this for me, however, is with ARIS, I have the ability to create a fictional narrative, or at least, fictional characters. I do fancy myself a creative writer, and for my MRE I am writing historical fiction on the patients of the Eastern Hospital for the Insane (Brockville, Ontario). With ARIS, I could apply my framework and examine these ehtical questions by doing something similar in a game narrative about people of a similar status to my primary research. Now this. This is interesting. Fiction, narrativity, and history. I'm sold. 

In coming back to <i>why</i>, I think the answer probably isn't much different from my <i>why</i> for writing historical fiction for my MRE. It's an effort to use history and reach different publics in various mediums. But it is also an effort to think about how these tools can be used in historical education, and empathy-based learning. All things I will surely blab about. 
