---
Layout: Post
Title: Paradata
--

<b>Why ARIS?</b>

In the summer, I worked at Parks Canada. I tried to convince them to partner with Google to create a map-based exploration of Franklin Expedition. They could place artifacts where they were found, put in the dates, visualize the journey, etc. It seemed like a no brainer and there were good examples of this. However, as government goes, it didn’t happen. It required far more negotiation than I could do in a couple months. It involved more people than I cared to deal with. I wasn’t going to die on this hill. 

But this story has a point. 

It shows my initial interest in exploring locative digital storytelling. When we were introduced to the three options for technology – and later four, ARIS appealed to this interest in locative storytelling. It seemed like a good opportunity to explore this, even if I did not love the app itself. In hindsight, I might have liked to use another technology that does something similar, but alas. It was done.

<b>Locative Storytelling</b>

Maybe I didn’t choose the best story to tell locative storytelling. I had a very clear vision of what I wanted to accomplish when I was at Parks Canada. I knew the history, I knew the material that was available to me, and it was easy to see how locative storytelling would suit this. However, coming into digital history, where I had to focus on an Ottawa based story that was somehow guerrilla, left me without a clear sense of what to do, and what might make a better location based research subject. My original idea to focus on multiple institutions seemed promising. But when I hit obstacles, which I have discussed in previous posts, the locative part of my storytelling became difficult.

There were several locations they considered for homes, and several places that would become homes, but they were extensively spread across the Ottawa-Gatineau region. Consequently, I decided to pick three location triggers relatively near so this running around to strange places in the region could be avoided. In hindsight, I am not sure this was the best decision, but it was done to make the narrative more accessible. 

<b>Audience</b>

One of the first things I thought about before embarking on this project was my audience. Being interesting in education and pedagogy, I thought I could make a game aimed at younger children. My initial hopes was to use the letters from children from the Protestant Orphanage to create an experience for children to understand what it might feel like to be an orphan, and what it was like living in the institution. 

However, when I consulted the records, it seems like these child-produced records did not actually exist. So creating this experience was going to be rather challenging. When I had to shift gears in what I was doing, I decided the audience would probably be as young as sixteen, but it could go up endlessly from there. The fact of the matter is, once I put it out there, I have no say on who the audience is and how they use it. It could be manipulated, taken out of context, misconstrued, or ignored entirely. 

<b>The Power of Visuals and Erasure </b>

One thing I discredited during the process was the power of including visuals in ARIS. At one point, I was looking at all my avatars, and I just thought, “so white, it’s so white.” But that’s just it. These institutions were so white. White people made them and they purposely excluded radicalized people. By looking at all the avatars, perhaps it tells another story more subtly. The other side of this, is maybe I need to question my research subject, or at least how I decided to tell it.

<b>Choices: A Conversational Inspiration</b>

There is this app that my stepsister used to play called “Choices.” It’s not a locative game, but it is one that you play all through conversation. In some ways, I used this as my inspiration to have most of the action in my game through conversation. I have a feeling that similarly to my unethical question, that some of their games have the same outcome no matter what you choose. But there are others that tell you that your decision, or unwillingness to spend money on the game, has affected the storyline. I guess I can never be certain.

<b>Takeaways: Not Now</b>

Sometimes when you haven’t loved doing something, it’s hard to appreciate what impact it had on you. Right now, I think I need distance from this project. It’s been frustrating and it felt unfulfilling because I don’t like ARIS, but also, I had a very different expectation for this class, and I have yet to reconcile this fully. I guess I was expecting to see something that was akin to the class a couple of years ago. It’s also fair to give digital history some slack because I know it got undue dislike as a result of my MRE. It felt like an unwanted distraction. 

I do think I would like to explore digital mapping in a different setting when I feel like I have the right project for it.

<b>Alternative Project: Teaching Tools</b>
One thing I would be interested in doing, is learning more about digital tools, as opposed to one specifically and think about ways they could be implemented in a classroom. I think it would have been far more engaging and interesting to me to develop a project that centered around creating lesson plans that included digital technology in the history classroom.

<b>Bonus: Look at all the Q-Cards</b>

Picturing coming soon.
